docs(): add build guide (#1)
smores56/sephirette: doc/buildguide_en.md

# Build Guide

> This is the build guide for [the sephirette](https://www.smoresboards.com/product/sephirette).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the build guide for [the Sephirette](https://www.smoresboards.com/product/sephirette).
```

## Parts

> ### Required
> 
> | Name | Count | Remarks |
> |:-|:-|:-|
> | PCB | 2 | |
> | ProMicro | 2 | |
> | 12-Pin socket | 4 | |
> | Reset switch | 2 | |
> | Key switches | 34 | |
> | Keycaps | 34 | |
> 
> #### wired build
> 
> | Name | Count | Remarks |
> |:-|:-|:-|
> | TRRS jack | 2 | |
> | TRRS (4 poles) cable | 1 | |
> | Micro USB/USB-C cable | 1 | according to the selected ProMicro MCU |
> 
> #### wireless build
> 
> | Name | Count | Remarks |
> |:-|:-|:-|
> | Power switch | 2 | |
> | battery | 1 | |
> 
> ### Optional
> 
> | Name | Count | Remarks |
> |:-|:-|:-|
> | Hot-swap sockets | 34 | |
> | Top plate | 2 | |
> | Bottom plate | 2 | |
> | Standoff | 20 | |
> | Screw M2 long | 10 | |
> | Screw M2 short | 10 | |
> | Washer | 10 | |
> | Bumpons | 8 | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Required

| Name | Count | Remarks |
|:-|:-|:-|
| PCB's | 2 | |
| Pro Micros | 2 | |
| 12-Pin Sockets | 4 | |
| Reset Switches | 2 | |
| Key Switches | 34 | |
| Keycaps | 34 | |

#### Wired Build

| Name | Count | Remarks |
|:-|:-|:-|
| TRRS Jacks | 2 | |
| TRRS (4 poles) Cable | 1 | |
| Micro USB/USB-C Cable | 1 | According to the selected Pro Micro-compatible MCU |

#### Wireless Build

| Name | Count | Remarks |
|:-|:-|:-|
| Power Switches | 2 | |
| Batteries | 2 | |

### Optional

| Name | Count | Remarks |
|:-|:-|:-|
| Hot-Swap Sockets | 34 | |
| Top Plates | 2 | |
| Bottom Plates | 2 | |
| M2 Standoffs (3mm) | 20 | |
| M2 Bolts (8mm) | 10 | |
| M2 Bolts (3mm) | 10 | |
| M2 Washers | 10 | |
| Bumpons | 8-10 | |
```

## Assembly

> If you are going to use hot-swap sockets solder them on the **bottom** side first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are going to use hot-swap sockets, solder them on the **bottom** side of each half first.
```

![solder_hot-swap-sockets](assets/build_hot-swap.jpg)

> Solder reset switch and trrs jack on the **top**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Solder the reset switches and TRRS jacks on the **top** of the PCB's.
```

![solder_reset-switch_and_trrs-jack](assets/build_reset-trrs.jpg)

> Solder ProMicro using the 12-pin sockets on the **top** side of the PCB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Solder the Pro Micros using the 12-pin sockets on the **top** side of the PCB's.
```

![solder_mcu](assets/build_mcu-reset-trrs.jpg)

> **NOTE:** Make sure to properly align your ProMicro MCU pins with the text on the PCB. The MCUs won't face the same direction on both sides!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** Make sure to properly align your Pro Micro MCU pins with the text on the PCB's. The left half has the Pro Micro face-down and the right half has it face-up.
```

![position_mcu](assets/build_text-mcu.jpg)
![mcus_side_by_side](assets/build_mcu-side-by-side.jpg)

> If you are going to use a top plate, then screw the long screws in with the standoffs on the bottom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are going to use switch plates, now you should screw the 8mm screws into the switch plates from the **top**, held in place by 5 of the 3mm standoffs per half under the switch plates. 
```

![screw_topplate_standoff](assets/build_topplate-screw-standoff.jpg)

> Insert 4 switches in the corners and don't forget to properly align them with the hot-swap sockets (if you are using any).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Insert 4 switches in the corners and don't forget to properly align them with the hot-swap sockets (if you are using them).
```

![switches_in_corner](assets/build_switch-corner.jpg)

> Place the washers on to the PCB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Place the washers onto the PCB's over top the mounting holes.
```

![washers_on_pcb](assets/build_washer-pcb.jpg)

> Align the the screws looking out from the top-plate with the washers on the PCB and gently press the 4 switches into place. After that you can add the remaining switches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Align the 8mm screws (poking out of the bottoms of the switch plates) with the washers on the PCB's and gently press the 4 switches into place. After that, you can add the remaining switches.
```

![topplate_on_pcb](assets/build_topplate-on-pcb.jpg)

> On the backside of the PCB screw in the standoffs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the backsides of the PCB's, screw in the remaining 3mm standoffs.
```

![standoffs_on_the_back](assets/build_standoff-bottom.jpg)

> Put the bottom plate on the standoffs and screw in the short screws and add the bumpons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the boards upside-down, put the bottom plates on the standoffs and screw in the 3mm screws. Then add the bumpons.
```

![screw_bottom](assets/build_screw-bottom.jpg)

> 
> 
> Add some keycaps and you're good to go.
> ![build_finished](assets/build_finished.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Add some keycaps and you're good to go!
![build_finished](assets/build_finished.jpg)
```

## Firmware

> You can use the [QMK-config](https://github.com/smores56/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clog) of the clog or ZMK config in the main repo of [ZMK](https://zmk.dev/). (This board uses the Clog firmwware and will be named as such on your computer.)
> 
> If you want to use the default keymap, you can just grab [this firmware](assets/clog_default.hex) and flash it right away.
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [QMK config](https://github.com/smores56/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clog) of the clog or ZMK config in the main repo of [ZMK](https://zmk.dev/). (This board uses the Clog firmware and will be named as such on your computer.)

If you want to use the default keymap, you can just grab [this firmware](assets/clog_default.hex) and flash it right away.
```
